# BrewerLean
BrewerLean is a commercial brewery operations and tracking tool.  As brewery owners, we are confronted with the reality that there is a lot of software ABOUT brewing but there's not a lot of software FOR brewing.  Existing commercial packages tend to focus primarily on regulatory compliance and have an overly strict view of the brewing "process" as it is generically defined.  This makes the software and features very valuable for management-level team members, but bloated and confusing for the team members who are on the production floor.  Those team members don't care about the intricacies of "expressing" production orders or if a particular package's workflow doesn't entirely mesh with theirs.  Unfortunately, those team members are also the keepers of the kingdon when it comes to accurate understanding of the state of a beer production facility at any point in time.

Compliance is key.  We've heard frequently that if you just train your employees to use whatever software system that's good enough.  We don't think that's the case.  It isn't about training them to use a thing, it's about getting them to care.  And getting employees to care drives buy-in and compliance.  A brewery operations system can't just be valuable up the management chain.  It has to be a core resource for *every* member of the team.  Systems that purport to be the "one-stop-shop" or the "single source of truth" just aren't real, and by their very nature waste time, energy, and effort.  We believe these systems should be decoupled and that it is perfectly okay for management team members to have different systems and different concerns, but that these concerns should ultimately come together in a cohesive (but not singular) way.

We call the system BrewerLean because we are advocates for LEAN process methods in a brewery manufacturing setting.  LEAN is about reduction of waste, and we feel that existing brewery software packages are repositories of waste because they try to be everything for everyone.  Waiting time, over processing, and unutilized talent are all core wastes to be avoided.  Information must be supplied and provided at the moment when it is available or when it is needed.  No extra clicks, no extra process understanding.  This isn't software *about* your brewery.  This is software *for* your brewery.

BrewerLean is not a one-stop-shop.  BrewerLean is not for workflow enforcement.  BrewerLean is intended to let you pick and choose what you need, and to be a complement to whatever business management systems you may want to use.  BrewerLean is not complete.  It's a work-in-progress that we hope will be found valuable by other members of the brewing community.  We hope that others will support us and support the project with further development.

## History
BrewerLean came out of an in-house project at The Alementary Brewing Co. to replace our clipboards and paper with an "electronic brew sheet" so we could all have ready access to the data without having to be at the brewery or without having to get a laptop to open a thick-client or non-mobile-friendly web application
